Prepare nextcloud storage docs for new authentication method (#18198)
opf/openproject: docs/system-admin-guide/integrations/nextcloud/oidc-sso/README.md

---
sidebar_navigation:
  title: Setup Single-Sign-On through OpenID Connect Identity Provider

>   priority: 600

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  priority: 900
```

description: Set up Single-Sign-On through OpenID Connect Identity Provider as the authentication method for your Nextcloud storage
keywords: Nextcloud file storage integration
---

# Setup Single-Sign-On through OpenID Connect Identity Provider

This authentication mode will use access tokens provided by an identity provider shared among Nextcloud and OpenProject to authenticate requests performed in the name of users.

You will have to perform configuration in OpenProject, Nextcloud and in your chosen identity provider.

## 1. Prerequisites

To use SSO authentication between OpenProject and Nextcloud, a few prerequisites have to be met:

1. Users need to login to OpenProject and Nextcloud through the same identity provider
2. The identity provider needs to hand out compatible access tokens
3. The identity provider needs to allow long-term access (e.g. through the `offline_access` scope)

> Those requirements are explained in more detail below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These requirements are explained in more detail below.
```

### User authentication

The requests between OpenProject and Nextcloud usually happen on behalf of a specific user. For example when OpenProject requests a file, Nextcloud will need to make sure that the user for whom we download the file had access to it in the first place.

For that to be possible, the user must authenticate in both applications through the same identity provider.

Additionally the user account has to be created in both systems already at the time of the request. Right now this requires users to login to both systems at least once. In the future, the initial creations of accounts will also be automated.

### Token compatibility

> The identity provider will need to hand out JWT encoded access tokens that can be validated according to the rules of [RFC 9068](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9068). Such tokens indicate at which application they are allowed to be used (the so-called Token _Audience_) and can be validated by an application mostly without performing additional web requests to the identity provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The identity provider will need to hand out JWT encoded access tokens that can be validated according to the rules of [RFC 9068](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9068). Such tokens indicate which application they are allowed to be used  in (the so-called Token _Audience_) and can be validated by an application mostly without performing additional web requests to the identity provider.
```

It must be possible for OpenProject to obtain an access token that includes the Nexcloud client in the audience and vice versa, to allow making requests between the two applications. This has to be supported in one of two ways by the identity provider:

1. It allows to perform _OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange_ according to [RFC 8693](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8693)
2. Alternatively, it provides tokens with the necessary audience during initial SSO authentication of the user

> Token exchange is generally the more secure option, since it allows fine-grained control by the identity provider which application can obtain tokens to make requests to other applications. It's usually harder to use leaked access tokens of this kind for privilege escalation. However, depending on the provider, the latter option may be easier to set-up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Token exchange is generally the more secure option, since it allows stricter control by the identity provider which application can obtain tokens to make requests to other applications. It's usually harder to use leaked access tokens of this kind for privilege escalation. However, depending on the provider, the latter option may be easier to set-up.
```

### Long-term access

OpenProject relies on the ability to retain access to issued tokens over a long duration. That means issued refresh tokens should not expire under normal circumstances. This is usually achieved by requesting a scope called `offline_access` from the identity provider.

## 2. Configuring supported identity providers

The integration between OpenProject and Nextcloud has been tested with the following identity providers and we consider them officially supported:

* Keycloak
* Nextcloud Hub

Other identity providers might work as well, but we only have limited capabilities to help you in setting them up. The Keycloak instructions should explain all the general steps necessary to make it work, but the exact way to configure it for your identity provider will most likely be different.

### Keycloak

> Keycloak can provide tokens via Token Exchange, as well as immediately after signing in the user. Using Token Exchange is preferred, but requires to enable two preview features in the Keycloak deployment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keycloak can provide tokens via Token Exchange, as well as immediately after user sign in. Using Token Exchange is preferred, but requires to enable two preview features in the Keycloak deployment:
```

* `token-exchange`
* `admin-fine-grained-authz`

> If you prefer to not enable preview features on your production deployment, it's also possible to use wide-access tokens.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you prefer not to enable preview features on your production deployment, it's also possible to use wide-access tokens.
```

> #### ... using Token Exchange

Reviewer 2: I would repeat it. The "using wide access tokens" part is so far down that the context was lost to me
```suggestion
#### Keycloak using Token Exchange
```

> #### ... using Token Exchange

Reviewer: Is this heading correct? It looks like the first part might be missing

Author: Feel free to edit. It makes sense to me, when looking at the headings we have:

* Keycloak
    * ... using Token Exchange
    * ... using wide access tokens
* Nextcloud Hub

So the two "..." mean "Keycloak", but I wanted to avoid the repetition.

Author: Dominic also commented this, the headings are now prefixed with "Keycloak" instead of "..."

##### Configuring Keycloak

> First make sure that you enabled both required features in Keycloak: `token-exchange` and `admin-fine-grained-authz`. You can [follow the Keycloak docs on how to do that](https://www.keycloak.org/server/features). Once they are enabled you can confirm them from the "Server Info" tab in your Keycloak installation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First make sure that you enabled both required features in Keycloak: `token-exchange` and `admin-fine-grained-authz`. You can [follow the Keycloak documentation on how to do that](https://www.keycloak.org/server/features). Once they are enabled you can confirm them from the "Server Info" tab in your Keycloak installation:
```

Next we will need to use the policies, so that they actually do allow the token exchange for given clients. Navigate to the `openproject` client, go to the Tab "Permissions", enable the box "Permissions enabled" and select the permission with the name `token-exchange`. You should end up on a form similar to this one:

![Empty view of the permission configuration dialog](keycloak_exchange_permission.png)

In the field "Policies" you can now add the `allowed-to-exchange-openproject-token` we created earlier. This means that clients matching that policy will be allowed to exchange an access token that has the `openproject`.

Afterwards repeat the previous steps to add the `allowed-to-exchange-nextcloud-token` policy to the `nextcloud` client.

##### Configuring OpenProject

In OpenProject it is enough to configure the ID of the Nextcloud client (in our example: `nextcloud`) as the "Storage Audience". This will make sure that OpenProject will attempt to exchange a token for that audience before making requests to Nextcloud:

![OpenProject is configured to manually exchange tokens for the audience called nextcloud](openproject_manual_storage_audience.png)

> ##### Configuring Nextcloud

Author: TODO: Explain how to configure the `user_oidc` app. At least:

1. Enable accepting Bearer Tokens
2. Enable storing login tokens

In Nextcloud we need to configure the OIDC provider that we are using as a common identity provider and also set the client ID of OpenProject as it's configured in Keycloak (in our case: `openproject`):

![Nextcloud is configured to exchange tokens for the audience called openproject](nextcloud_manual_storage_audience.png)

This wraps up the configuration of this authentication method using Keycloak and token exchange. For details on the next step continue with the [general setup instructions](../#4-automatically-managed-project-folders).

> #### ... using wide-access tokens

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Keycloak using wide-access tokens
```

Finally we need to assign our newly created client scopes to our OpenProject and Nextcloud clients, so that the scopes take effect there. Navigate to the Nextcloud client, open the "Client Scopes" tab of the client and click "Add client scope". Then select the `add-openproject-audience` scope and add it as a "Default" scope:

![Nextcloud client with an additional scope added as default](keycloak_client_with_scope.png)

Adding the scope as a default scope means that it doesn't have to be explicitly requested by the client, but will be implicitly included whenever requesting a token. Lastly repeat the same steps on the OpenProject client, adding the `add-nextcloud-audience` scope.

##### Configuring OpenProject

In OpenProject configure the storage to "Use first access token obtained by identity provider". This means OpenProject will not attempt to perform a token exchange, but simply use the first token returned by the identity provider for authentication against the storage as well:

![OpenProject is configured to use the first access token obtained from the IDP](openproject_idp_storage_audience.png)

##### Configuring Nextcloud

> TODO: How should we configure Nextcloud in this case? Not possible yet? Use `openproject`?

Reviewer: Is it now cleared up?

Author: Not yet. Worst-case is that we have to throw it out. We should hopefully have a decision this week.

Background: It was "not yet" possible, but work for that is underway, but requires changes from the Nextcloud developers as well.

This wraps up the configuration of this authentication method using Keycloak without token exchange. For details on the next step continue with the [general setup instructions](../#4-automatically-managed-project-folders).

### Nextcloud Hub

> TODO: Maybe a few introductory words about Nextcloud Hub? (e.g. "Nextcloud has two roles; 1. IDP, 2. storage)

Reviewer: That would be good

Author: added

##### Configuring OpenProject

In OpenProject configure the storage to "Use first access token obtained by identity provider". This means OpenProject will not attempt to perform a token exchange, but simply use the first token returned by the identity provider for authentication against the storage as well:

![OpenProject is configured to use the first access token obtained from the IDP](openproject_idp_storage_audience.png)

##### Configuring Nextcloud

> TODO: How do we configure this scenario?

Reviewer: Is there an update here?

Author: now there is

---
sidebar_navigation:

>   title: Setup Single-Sign-On through OpenID Connect Identity Provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  title: Setup Single Sign-On through OpenID Connect Identity Provider
```

  priority: 900

> description: Set up Single-Sign-On through OpenID Connect Identity Provider as the authentication method for your Nextcloud storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Set up Single Sign-On through OpenID Connect Identity Provider as the authentication method for your Nextcloud storage
```

keywords: Nextcloud file storage integration
---

> # Setup Single-Sign-On through OpenID Connect Identity Provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Setup Single Sign-On through OpenID Connect Identity Provider
```

This authentication mode will use access tokens provided by an identity provider shared among Nextcloud and OpenProject to authenticate requests performed in the name of users.

You will have to perform configuration in OpenProject, Nextcloud and in your chosen identity provider.

## 1. Prerequisites

To use SSO authentication between OpenProject and Nextcloud, a few prerequisites have to be met:

1. Users need to login to OpenProject and Nextcloud through the same identity provider
2. The identity provider needs to hand out compatible access tokens
3. The identity provider needs to allow long-term access (e.g. through the `offline_access` scope)

These requirements are explained in more detail below.

### User authentication

> The requests between OpenProject and Nextcloud usually happen on behalf of a specific user. For example when OpenProject requests a file, Nextcloud will need to make sure that the user for whom we download the file had access to it in the first place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The requests between OpenProject and Nextcloud usually happen on behalf of a specific user. For example, when OpenProject requests a file, Nextcloud will need to make sure that the user for whom we download the file has access to it in the first place.
```

For that to be possible, the user must authenticate in both applications through the same identity provider.

> Additionally the user account has to be created in both systems already at the time of the request. Right now this requires users to login to both systems at least once. In the future, the initial creations of accounts will also be automated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, the user account has to be created in both systems already at the time of the request. Right now this requires users to log in to both systems at least once. In the future, the initial creation of accounts will also be automated.
```

### Token compatibility

> The identity provider will need to hand out JWT encoded access tokens that can be validated according to the rules of [RFC 9068](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9068). Such tokens indicate which application they are allowed to be used  in (the so-called Token _Audience_) and can be validated by an application mostly without performing additional web requests to the identity provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The identity provider will need to hand out JWT-encoded access tokens that can be validated according to the rules of [RFC 9068](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc9068). Such tokens indicate which application they are allowed to be used  in (the so-called Token _Audience_) and can be validated by an application mostly without performing additional web requests to the identity provider.
```

> It must be possible for OpenProject to obtain an access token that includes the Nexcloud client in the audience and vice versa, to allow making requests between the two applications. This has to be supported in one of two ways by the identity provider:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It must be possible for OpenProject to obtain an access token that includes the Nextcloud client in the audience and vice versa, to allow making requests between the two applications. This has to be supported in one of two ways by the identity provider:
```

> It must be possible for OpenProject to obtain an access token that includes the Nexcloud client in the audience and vice versa, to allow making requests between the two applications. This has to be supported in one of two ways by the identity provider:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It must be possible for OpenProject to obtain an access token that includes the Nextcloud client in the audience and vice versa, to allow making requests between the two applications. This has to be supported in one of two ways by the identity provider:
```

> 1. It allows to perform _OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange_ according to [RFC 8693](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8693)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. It allows performing _OAuth 2.0 Token Exchange_ according to [RFC 8693](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8693)
```

2. Alternatively, it provides tokens with the necessary audience during initial SSO authentication of the user

> Token exchange is generally the more secure option, since it allows stricter control by the identity provider which application can obtain tokens to make requests to other applications. It's usually harder to use leaked access tokens of this kind for privilege escalation. However, depending on the provider, the latter option may be easier to set-up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Token exchange is generally the more secure option, since it allows stricter control by the identity provider which application can obtain tokens to make requests to other applications. It's usually harder to use leaked access tokens of this kind for privilege escalation. However, depending on the provider, the latter option may be easier to set up.
```

### Long-term access

> OpenProject relies on the ability to retain access to issued tokens over a long duration. That means issued refresh tokens should not expire under normal circumstances. This is usually achieved by requesting a scope called `offline_access` from the identity provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OpenProject relies on the ability to retain access to issued tokens over a long duration. This means that issued refresh tokens should not expire under normal circumstances. This is usually achieved by requesting the `offline_access` scope from the identity provider.
```

## 2. Configuring supported identity providers

> The integration between OpenProject and Nextcloud has been tested with the following identity providers and we consider them officially supported:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The integration between OpenProject and Nextcloud has been tested with the following identity providers, which we consider officially supported:
```

* Keycloak
* Nextcloud Hub

> Other identity providers might work as well, but we only have limited capabilities to help you in setting them up. The Keycloak instructions should explain all the general steps necessary to make it work, but the exact way to configure it for your identity provider will most likely be different.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other identity providers might work as well, but we have only limited capacity to assist with their setup. The Keycloak instructions should explain all the general steps necessary to make it work, but the exact way to configure it for your identity provider will likely differ.
```

### Keycloak

> Keycloak can provide tokens via Token Exchange, as well as immediately after user sign in. Using Token Exchange is preferred, but requires to enable two preview features in the Keycloak deployment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Keycloak can provide tokens via Token Exchange, as well as immediately after user sign-in. Using Token Exchange is preferred, but requires enabling two preview features in the Keycloak deployment:
```

* `token-exchange`
* `admin-fine-grained-authz`

If you prefer not to enable preview features on your production deployment, it's also possible to use wide-access tokens, i.e. configure the access token that is handed out after user sign-in to also grant access to other applications.

#### Common setup steps

> Regardless of the way that tokens are handed out, you need to configure the clients correctly. Assuming that users can already sign in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regardless of how tokens are handed out, you need to configure the clients correctly. Assuming that users can already sign in
```

> to your OpenProject and Nextcloud instance via Keycloak, you should already have configured a client for both applications. For the rest of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to your OpenProject and Nextcloud instances via Keycloak, you should already have configured a client for both applications. For the rest of
```

> this guide we will assume that these clients exist with the client ID `openproject` and `nextcloud` respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
this guide, we will assume that these clients exist with the client ID `openproject` and `nextcloud` respectively.
```

> To make requests to the API of OpenProject a client needs to obtain a token with the scope `api_v3`. We need to configure this client scope

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To make requests to the API of OpenProject, a client needs to obtain a token with the scope `api_v3`. We need to configure this client scope
```

in Keycloak, so that the Nextcloud client can obtain it.

> First navigate to "Client scopes" and there press the button to "Create client scope" and give the scope a name of `api_v3`. Make sure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, navigate to "Client scopes", click the "Create client scope" button and name the scope `api_v3`. Make sure
```

to enable the option "Include in token scope", then save the form.

> This makes the scope ready to use. How we will use it, depends on the way that tokens are handed out to clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This makes the scope ready to use. How we use it depends on the way that tokens are handed out to clients.
```

Author: This doesn't sound right. "How use it" sounds like there is a word missing.

Maybe "how to"?

Reviewer: Yes, a typo on my side. I've corrected the suggestion.

#### Keycloak using Token Exchange

##### Configuring Keycloak

> First make sure that you enabled both required features in Keycloak: `token-exchange` and `admin-fine-grained-authz`. You can [follow the Keycloak documentation on how to do that](https://www.keycloak.org/server/features). Once they are enabled you can confirm them from the "Server Info" tab in your Keycloak installation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, make sure that you enabled both required features in Keycloak: `token-exchange` and `admin-fine-grained-authz`. You can [follow the Keycloak documentation on how to do that](https://www.keycloak.org/server/features). Once they are enabled, you can confirm them from the "Server Info" tab in your Keycloak installation:
```

![The Keycloak UI that shows enabled features](keycloak_features.png)

We will need to allow OpenProject to exchange tokens with `nextcloud` in the audience, as well as allowing Nextcloud to exchange tokens with `openproject` in the audience.

> To do this, we first create policies that will be used to control which clients are allowed to exchange tokens for a specific audience. Go to the `realm-management` client (in the default realm this client is called `master-realm`) and switch to the Tab "Authorization" and there to the "Policies" submenu. In case the "Authorization" tab is not visible, it might be necessary to make it visible by going to "Permissions" first and enabling fine-grained permissions there. Assuming you didn't create any other policies yet, your view should look similar to this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To do this, we first create policies that will be used to control which clients are allowed to exchange tokens for a specific audience. Go to the `realm-management` client (in the default realm this client is called `master-realm`) and switch to the "Authorization" tab and there to the "Policies" submenu. If the "Authorization" tab is not visible, it might be necessary to make it visible by going to "Permissions" first and enabling fine-grained permissions there. Assuming you didn't create any other policies yet, your view should look similar to this:
```

![An empty list of policies](keycloak_empty_policies.png)

Click the "Create client policy" button and select "Client" as the policy type. Other types would be possible as well (such as Client scope), but this guide will explain the setup based on a client policy. Name the policy `allowed-to-exchange-openproject-token` and add at least `nextcloud` to the list of clients, while making sure that the Logic is "Positive". Afterwards repeat the same steps, creating a policy called `allowed-to-exchange-nextcloud-token`, including `openproject` in the list of clients:

![One of the two exchange policies configured above](keycloak_exchange_policy.png)

> We will later use these policies to control who is allowed to perform a token exchange that results in a token usable for requests to the given client. For example if you have additional clients that need to obtain a token usable at OpenProject, you'd add those clients to the `allowed-to-exchange-openproject-token` client list. The names suggested here are proposals for readable policy names, but they have no practical impact.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We will later use these policies to control who is allowed to perform a token exchange that results in a token usable for requests to the given client. For example, if you have additional clients that need to obtain a token usable at OpenProject, you'd add those clients to the `allowed-to-exchange-openproject-token` client list. The names suggested here are proposals for readable policy names, but they have no practical impact.
```

> Next we will need to use the policies, so that they actually do allow the token exchange for given clients. Navigate to the `openproject` client, go to the Tab "Permissions", enable the box "Permissions enabled" and select the permission with the name `token-exchange`. You should end up on a form similar to this one:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we need to apply the policies, so that they actually allow the token exchange for given clients. Navigate to the `openproject` client, go to the Tab "Permissions", enable the "Permissions enabled" checkbox and select the permission with the name `token-exchange`. You should end up on a form similar to this one:
```

![Empty view of the permission configuration dialog](keycloak_exchange_permission.png)

> In the field "Policies" you can now add the `allowed-to-exchange-openproject-token` we created earlier. This means that clients matching that policy will be allowed to exchange an access token that has the `openproject`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the field "Policies" you can now add the `allowed-to-exchange-openproject-token` we created earlier. This means that clients matching that policy will be allowed to exchange an access token that includes `openproject`.
```

Author: My original sentence was incomplete. It should have said "has the `openproject` audience. But I'll do the completed sentence using "includes" as suggested.

Author: done

Finally we need to assign our newly created client scopes to our OpenProject and Nextcloud clients, so that the scopes take effect there. Navigate to the Nextcloud client, open the "Client Scopes" tab of the client and click "Add client scope". Then select the `add-openproject-audience` scope and add it as a "Default" scope:

![Nextcloud client with an additional scope added as default](keycloak_client_with_scope.png)

Adding the scope as a default scope means that it doesn't have to be explicitly requested by the client, but will be implicitly included whenever requesting a token. Lastly repeat the same steps on the OpenProject client, adding the `add-nextcloud-audience` scope.

##### Configuring OpenProject

In OpenProject configure the storage to "Use first access token obtained by identity provider". This means OpenProject will not attempt to perform a token exchange, but simply use the first token returned by the identity provider for authentication against the storage as well:

![OpenProject is configured to use the first access token obtained from the IDP](openproject_idp_storage_audience.png)

##### Configuring Nextcloud

> In Nextcloud we need to configure that we are using an "external provider" by selecting the corresponding radio button in the authentication settings of the OpenProject integration. Select the OIDC provider that we are using as a common identity provider from the dropdown.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Nextcloud, we need to configure that we are using an "external provider" by selecting the corresponding radio button in the authentication settings of the OpenProject integration. Select the OIDC provider we’re using as the common identity provider from the dropdown.
```

Make sure to leave the toggle "enable token exchange" disabled:

![Nextcloud configured to use the login token](nextcloud_using_login_token.png)

> Additionally we need to configure the OpenID Connect provider in Nextcloud. Navigate to "Administration", and choose "OpenID Connect" from the sidebar. You should see a list of your configured OpenID Connect providers. At the top of that page enable the checkbox called "Store login tokens". This setting is required by Nextcloud to allow using tokens obtained during login for token exchange or requests to other services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, we need to configure the OpenID Connect provider in Nextcloud. Navigate to "Administration" and choose "OpenID Connect" from the sidebar. You should see a list of your configured OpenID Connect providers. At the top of that page enable the "Store login tokens" checkbox. This setting is required by Nextcloud to allow using tokens obtained during login for token exchange or requests to other services.
```

> Afterwards navigate to the OpenID Connect provider of the Keycloak and edit it. Make sure that the `api_v3` claim is part of the "Scope" text box. If it hasn't been added so far, you can append it to the existing text, ensuring that it is preceeded by a space, e.g., `openid email profile api_v3`. This ensures that Nextcloud will request the `api_v3` scope when a user logs in. Only then Keycloak will allow to exchange a token for OpenProject that carries the `api_v3` scope as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Afterwards navigate to the OpenID Connect provider of the Keycloak and edit it. Make sure that the `api_v3` claim is part of the "Scope" text box. If it hasn't been added so far, you can append it to the existing text, ensuring that it is preceeded by a space, e.g., `openid email profile api_v3`. This ensures that Nextcloud will request the `api_v3` scope when a user logs in. Only then will Keycloak allow to exchange a token for OpenProject that carries the `api_v3` scope as well.
```

This wraps up the configuration of this authentication method using Keycloak without token exchange. For details on the next step continue with the [general setup instructions](../#4-automatically-managed-project-folders).

### Nextcloud Hub

In the Nextcloud Hub use case, Nextcloud fulfills two roles:

* It acts as a storage provider, just as usual
* It acts as the identity provider

> This deployment is simpler compared to running a dedicated identity provider, because it requires deployment and configuration of fewer applications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This deployment is simpler than running a dedicated identity provider, because it requires deployment and configuration of fewer applications.
```

This guide will cover the setup related to using Nextcloud as a storage provider and will assume that it was already configured to be the OpenID Connect Provider of OpenProject.

##### Configuring OpenProject

> In OpenProject configure the storage to "Use first access token obtained by identity provider". This means OpenProject will not attempt to perform a token exchange, but simply use the first token returned by the identity provider for authentication against the storage as well:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In OpenProject, configure the storage to "Use first access token obtained by identity provider". This means OpenProject will not attempt to perform a token exchange, but simply use the first token returned by the identity provider for authentication against the storage as well:
```

![OpenProject is configured to use the first access token obtained from the IDP](openproject_idp_storage_audience.png)

##### Configuring Nextcloud

> In Nextcloud we configure the OIDC provider to be "Nextcloud Hub". In the field "OpenProject client ID" you have to set the client ID of OpenProject as it's configured in Nextcloud (in the sidebar select "Security" and then scroll down to "OpenID Connect clients"):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Nextcloud, we configure the OIDC provider to be "Nextcloud Hub". In the field "OpenProject client ID" you have to set the client ID of OpenProject as it's configured in Nextcloud (in the sidebar select "Security" and then scroll down to "OpenID Connect clients"):
```

For the client of the OpenProject application make sure that the signing method is set to RS256 and the "Access Token Type" is "JWT Access Token (RFC 9068)". These two settings allow OpenProject to validate the tokens when it receives them in API requests. Afterwards scroll down to the
section "Settings" and set the "Refresh Token Expire Time" to "Never". Non-expiring refresh tokens are a requirement by OpenProject right now.

This wraps up the configuration of this authentication method using Nextcloud Hub. For details on the next step continue with the [general setup instructions](../#4-automatically-managed-project-folders).

## 3. Migrating from Two-way OAuth 2.0 authentication

It is possible to migrate an existing storage to use SSO authentication. You can follow the steps outlined above for your specific setup, all of the relevant options
in OpenProject and Nextcloud are also accessible from the views to edit your storage.

> Please note that all the [prerequisites](#1-prerequisites) mentioned above still apply, this means if your users don't already authenticate to OpenProject and Nextcloud through the same

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please note that all the [prerequisites](#1-prerequisites) mentioned above still apply. This means if your users don't already authenticate to OpenProject and Nextcloud through the same
```
